The '''expert track''' recognizes the development of team members who contribute to company and customer success by achieving advanced mastery in their core role. It is one of the three key [[Professional Career Tracks in Operations]] at Research Square.

==What is the expert track?==
On the expert track, team members achieve advanced mastery in their core role, where they directly help our customers succeed on a daily basis. These team members spend most of their time using their advanced mastery in their core role. Key performance indicators include Quality, Service and Timeliness.

==How do I advance?==
Expert track requirements for advancement have been defined for each of our core Operations roles. The requirements include the following:
*Experience (based on volume of work ''or'' tenure)
*Timeliness
*Quality
*Role fit & Culture Fit
*Actions in support of business needs
*Breadth of expertise

The thresholds for these factors are based on historical data for past and current employees. Some of the requirements for advancement are common to all core roles within Operations (e.g., tenure and culture fit). Other requirements, like specific quality standards and business needs, vary by role.

Unlike the [[Specialist Career Track (Operations)|Specialist]] and Managerial Tracks, which require an application because a new position is being created, the Expert Track does not require an application. Once you achieve the defined levels of mastery, you will automatically advance. However, to ensure advancement when the time comes, team members planning to pursue the Expert track should work closely with their TM to establish mastery goals and track their progress.

==I think I already qualify for advancement. How do I find out if this is the case?==
Your TM can determine whether you’re ready to advance and, if not, how close you are. He or she will let you know when you meet all the requirements, but feel free to ask.

==Does advancing to Expert II or III come with monetary benefits?==
Yes, advancement to II or III comes with two financial benefits: 1) a one-time bonus of $2,500 for each level of advancement and 2) an increase in long-term earning potential of $2,500 for each level of advancement. The one-time bonus will not impact the annual salary review process.

==Can you switch between tracks?==
Yes, just as we’ve seen movement between the Managerial and Specialist tracks, we expect to see movement to and from the Expert track as well. For example, an Expert II may later move into a specialist role or may become interested in management. If such roles align with your goals and career progression, you shouldn't hesitate to apply for them.

The goal of the career tracks is to recognize the main ways in which our team members advance in their careers at Research Square and provide stepping stones along those paths. The goal is not to force people to commit to one track indefinitely. An individual’s strengths and interests may change over time. That said, it’s important for your own job satisfaction to dedicate significant time reflecting and talking with your TM as you consider which track is right for you and your individual strengths and interests.

==If you don’t pursue the Specialist or Managerial tracks, won’t everyone else automatically become a II or III in time?==
Not necessarily. In addition to numerical thresholds, which many team members will eventually hit over time, there are also behavioral and culture expectations for advancement. Being a good culture fit is required, and one of the most important core values for Experts is ‘Own the success of the business.’ Experts II and III are expected to own the success of the business by focusing their mastery on business priorities and achieving a breadth of expertise in the various products their role delivers.



==How were the numerical thresholds like volume of work determined?==
Over the years, we’ve analyzed when team members achieve mastery in core responsibilities such as quality, efficiency and an understanding of how our operations work and how they contribute to company and customer success. Based on our analyses, we created volume and tenure milestones for advancement.

Volume of work thresholds were based on a full-time point load for the number of years expected in the role to reach important milestones in mastery (2 or 5 years). Volume of work considers a ramp-up period during ~3 months of training in the first year and 3 full weeks of PTO taken for each year of tenure (6 weeks for 2 years and 15 weeks for 5 years).

==If I’m part-time, will my volume of work thresholds be normalized to my part-time hours?==
No. Whether you’re full-time or part-time, you must achieve the same thresholds before advancing. The Expert track is truly meant to reflect advanced mastery in our core roles, and a significant part of achieving mastery is through experience. Everyone who advances must meet the minimum amount of experience, as a key indicator of mastery, before advancing.

==If I choose to pursue the Expert track, does that mean I can’t participate in projects?==
No, everyone will continue to have the same project and task opportunities. If you pursue the Expert track and choose to spend a lot of time on projects, it may take you a little longer than others to meet the mastery thresholds, and that’s OK. You should always pursue what’s most satisfying for you and the activities that best utilize your strengths to help Research Square succeed. Some people may be more motivated to hit the thresholds and thus may choose to stick to core role work, and that’s OK too!

==See Also==
* [[Career Development]]
* [[Professional Career Tracks in Operations]]

[[Category: Editing Team Resources]]
[[Category: AE Resources]]
[[Category: QCE Resources]]
[[category: Translation Team Resources]]
[[category: Formatting Team Resources]]
[[category: Rubriq Team Resources]]
